K8SPXC-530 document PITR (#674)
percona/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator: source/backups.rst

        storageName: s3-us-west
      EOF

.. _backups-pitr-binlog:

Backing up binary logs for point-in-time-recovery
--------------------------------------------------

Point-in-time-recovery functionality allows users to roll back the cluster to a
specific transaction, time (or even skip a transaction in some cases).
Technically, this feature involves continuously saving binary log updates to the

> backup storage. Point-in-time-recovery is off by default.

Reviewer: I think we should mention that it would be good when enabling PITR that the bucket/directory which holds the binlogs should be empty (without some binlogs/files from previous attempts or other clusters) - otherwise you might end up with some issues.

        storageName: s3-us-west
      EOF

.. _backups-pitr-binlog:

> Backing up binary logs for point-in-time recovery

Reviewer: Please mention that this is supported only with PXC version `8.0.21-12.1` and higher.

        storageName: s3-us-west
      EOF

.. _backups-pitr-binlog:

> Backing up binary logs for point-in-time recovery

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Storing binary logs for point-in-time recovery
```

               endpointURL: https://URL-OF-THE-S3-COMPATIBLE-STORAGE
           ...

2. After that, the actual restoration process can be started as follows:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f deploy/backup/restore.yaml

.. note:: Storing backup settings in a separate file can be replaced by passing
   its content to the ``kubectl apply`` command as follows:

   .. code:: bash

      cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
      apiVersion: "pxc.percona.com/v1"
      kind: "PerconaXtraDBClusterRestore"
      metadata:
        name: "restore1"
      spec:
        pxcCluster: "cluster1"
        backupName: "backup1"
      EOF

.. _backups-pitr-restore:

Restoring backup with point-in-time recovery
********************************************

.. note:: Disable the point-in-time functionality on the existing cluster before
          restoring a backup on it, regardless of whether the backup was made
          with point-in-time recovery or without it.

If the point-in-time recovery feature :ref:`was enabled<backups-pitr-binlog>`,

> you can use put additional restoration parameters to the ``restore.yaml`` file

Reviewer: `you can use put additional` -> `you can put additional`

               endpointURL: https://URL-OF-THE-S3-COMPATIBLE-STORAGE
           ...

2. After that, the actual restoration process can be started as follows:

   .. code:: bash

      kubectl apply -f deploy/backup/restore.yaml

.. note:: Storing backup settings in a separate file can be replaced by passing
   its content to the ``kubectl apply`` command as follows:

   .. code:: bash

      cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f-
      apiVersion: "pxc.percona.com/v1"
      kind: "PerconaXtraDBClusterRestore"
      metadata:
        name: "restore1"
      spec:
        pxcCluster: "cluster1"
        backupName: "backup1"
      EOF

.. _backups-pitr-restore:

Restoring backup with point-in-time recovery
********************************************

.. note:: Disable the point-in-time functionality on the existing cluster before
          restoring a backup on it, regardless of whether the backup was made
          with point-in-time recovery or without it.

If the point-in-time recovery feature :ref:`was enabled<backups-pitr-binlog>`,
you can put additional restoration parameters to the ``restore.yaml`` file
``pitr`` section for the most fine-grained restoration.

> * ``backupSource`` key should contain ``destination`` key equal to the s3 bucket

Reviewer: I'm not sure about the `destination` key under `pitr/backupSource` - I don't think it is used. Mandatory is to have `s3` keys including the `bucket` key. We have removed destination in the example so probably it needs to be removed here also, but do check with @nonemax 
My understanding is that `destination` works for the full backup part of restore yaml, but not for pitr part.

  with a special ``s3://`` prefix, followed by the necessary S3 configuration
  keys, same as in ``deploy/cr.yaml`` file: ``s3://S3-BUCKET-NAME/BACKUP-NAME``,
* ``type`` key can be equal to one of the following options,
  * ``date`` - roll back to specific date,
  * ``skip`` - roll back, skip the transaction, roll over,
  * ``latest`` - recover to the latest possible transaction,
* ``date`` key is used with ``type=date`` option - it contains value in
  datetime format,
* ``gtidSet`` key is used with ``type=skip`` option - it contain exact GTID.

The resulting ``restore.yaml`` file may look as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

   apiVersion: pxc.percona.com/v1
   kind: PerconaXtraDBClusterRestore
   metadata:
     name: restore1
   spec:
     pxcCluster: cluster1
     backupName: backup1
     pitr:
       type: date
       date: "2020-12-31 09:37:13"
       backupSource:

>          destination: s3://S3-BUCKET-NAME/BACKUP-NAME

Reviewer: I don't think `destination` is used for `pitr` part of restore.yaml file, but `bucket` is mandatory, but it goes under `pitr->backupSource->s3->bucket`
something like this:
```
  pitr:
    type: latest
    backupSource:
      s3:
        bucket: tomislav-backup/binlogs
        credentialsSecret: my-cluster-name-backup-s3
        endpointUrl: https://s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com
        region: us-west-2
```

  * ``latest`` - recover to the latest possible transaction,
* ``date`` key is used with ``type=date`` option - it contains value in
  datetime format,

> * ``gtidSet`` key is used with ``type=skip`` option - it contain exact GTID,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* ``gtidSet`` key is used with ``type=skip`` option - it contain exact GTIDSet,
```

      spec:
        pxcCluster: "cluster1"
        backupName: "backup1"
        pitr:
          type: date
          date: "2020-12-31 09:37:13"
          backupSource:
            destination: s3://S3-BUCKET-NAME/BACKUP-NAME
            s3:

>               credentialsSecret: my-cluster-name-backup-s3

Reviewer: `bucket` is mandatory if I understand correctly and `destination` for `pitr/backupSource` should be removed - I tried to use it but it didn't work. Please check with @nonemax 
My understanding is that `destination` works for the full backup part of restore yaml, but not for pitr part.
